此文创作于2024.9.19，初创作时不仅无法发在公众号和星球，甚至朋友圈都被秒屏蔽，不过这可能也部分证明其质量

考虑到这也是某种预测，留作记录以供参考


The economy is ruined because the reform and opening-up steps are too small, not too big

Since the mainland economy has taken a sharp turn for the worse in recent years, many people have pointed the finger at "capital", believing that the cannibalistic capital has drained the blood, sweat and lives of the people, and that capitalists are all unforgivable villains.

More importantly, they also believe that the past economic policies were too open, leading to corruption, rent-seeking and capital flooding.

But I think it's just the opposite, not too much openness, but too little openness.

Looking back on the 40 years of reform and opening-up, this land has never touched on the reform of the fundamental system, that is, giving the market and entrepreneurs the legal status, recognizing private property, etc.

The entire reform and opening-up, to put it bluntly, is actually just an "experiment" based on the planned economy, implementing "planned opening-up" and retaining the ability to reverse it at any time.

From the perspective of left and right, mainland society has always been divided into extreme left and left-leaning.

As for the public opinion about the excessive power of capital and private corruption, it is purely a manifestation of the power using the media to fool the masses and reverse black and white.

Now that land finance is completely ruined, the power has incited the mob to label and reshuffle the real contributors to the economy, "entrepreneurs". However, the condition for you to oppose is to restrict your opposing ideas and weapons at the same time.

The power has cleared itself of all charges, expanded the national economy, reaped the benefits of rapid development, and dumped debts on everyone like shit, thus maintaining the red regime forever.

On the contrary, if there was a small probability before, and the society was completely opened up and awakened. Then a fundamental non-utopian foundation surgery was carried out, then there might be a possibility of changing the outcome of the total collapse of China's economy, culture, and social thought in the 21st century.

But this possibility is getting closer and closer to fantasy. In the foreseeable future, I don't see any possibility of change.

From the Qin system to the present, the blood of countless martyrs has not changed the essence of the cycle of imperial power and the ultra-stable structure of society. It has been embedded in the Chinese culture and social genes, and will not change fundamentally with a certain ruling party, specific policies, or even constitutional representation.
